PSEUDO PR - DO NOT MERGE (#2)
nf-core/isoseq: docs/usage.md

## Introduction

> This pipeline has been designed to analyse several samples or sequencing runs in the same time. It reads all samples from a samplesheet file and and parallelize computation for each of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This pipeline has been designed to analyse several samples or sequencing runs at the same time. It reads all samples from a samplesheet file and parallelizes computation for each of them.
```

```

| Column   | Description                                                                                                                                                               |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `sample` | Custom sample name. Spaces in sample names are automatically converted to underscores (`_`).                                                                              |
| `bam`    | Full path to isoseq subreads in `bam` format.                                                                                                                             |
| `pbi`    | Full path to Pacbio index generated with [pbindex](https://github.com/pacificbiosciences/pbbam/). File's name must be compose of bam file name with the `.pbi` extension. |

An [example samplesheet](../assets/samplesheet.csv) has been provided with the pipeline.

### Primer file

The primer files must be in `FASTA` format. The isoseq3 tutorial suggest to trim polyA from primer sequences to address `LIMA` polyA issue.

> However, this will discard a significant number of valid transcripts. To avoid this drawback, Richard Kuo suggest to conserve primer's polyA stretches, run `LIMA` without `--require-polya` and use TAMA's `tama_flnc_polya_cleanup.py` script. [[twitter thread](https://twitter.com/GenomeRIK/status/1179788262187110401)]

Reviewer: 😍

```console
>5p
>primer_5p
TGGATTGATATGTAATACGACTCACTATAG
>primer_3p
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAACGCCTGAGA
```

Use the --primers option to specify its location.

```console
--primers '[path to primers file]'
```

### Reference genome and annotation

The reference genome sequence is mandatory and must be in `FASTA` format.
The reference genome annotation in `GTF` format is required if `uLTRA` aligner is selected.

```console
--fasta '[path to genome file]'
--gtf '[path to annotation file]'
```

### Aligners

Two aligners are available. The `uLTRA` aligner helps to detect small exons with the help of reference genome. However if no annotation is available for your genome you can use minimap2.

```console
--fasta '[ultra,minimap2]'
```

## Running the pipeline

The typical command for running the pipeline is as follows:

```console

> nextflow run nf-core/isoseq --input samplesheet.csv --primers primers.fasta --fasta Gallus_gallus.GRCg6a.dna.toplevel.fasta -profile singularity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nextflow run nf-core/isoseq --input samplesheet.csv  --outdir <OUTDIR> --primers primers.fasta --fasta Gallus_gallus.GRCg6a.dna.toplevel.fasta -profile singularity
```
